@(#)$Id: AUTHORS,v 1.1 2002/09/23 19:12:51 bogdan Rel $

wx200d was written by Tim Witham <twitham@quiknet.com>, known as
<twitham@pcocd2.intel.com> back in 1997 when development began.

wx200d was written by me on my own time and equipment.  My employer
has absolutely nothing to do with it.  See also the file COPYING.


	CREDITS:

Thanks to:

RadioShack(TM) and AccuWeather(R) for producing a nice and affordable
weather station.  Radio Shack(TM) is a trademark used by Tandy
Corporation.  AccuWeather(R) is a registered trademark of AccuWeather,
Inc.

Mike Wingstrom <mikeasl@earthlink.net> for reverse engineering of the
WX200 serial data stream.

Glynne Tolar <glynne@blkbox.com> for additional work and for setting
up the very helpful mailing list and web page.  Without their efforts,
this project would have been much more difficult.

Don Dykes <dykes@pobox.com> for helpful feedback and encouragement.

Tim Smith <trs@azstarnet.com> for adding the wx200 options to output a
single weather variable.

Pat Jensen <patj@futureunix.net> for the termio to termios conversion
of serial.c.  This allowed the code to also compile and run on BSD if
you have GNU getops and GNU make.

<dirkx@covalent.net> for the patch to allow quick (re)start of deamon
or client while there are pending conncections during the quit.  This
is to avoid addresss/port in use error.

Raul Luna <rlunaro@bigfoot.com> for the Postgres database support for
the server.

"rofo" and Dean Benson <dean@visualsoft.co.uk> for ideas on more wx200
options.

Steve Fraser <sfraser@sierra.apana.org.au> for wx200's --aprs option
and the wxaprs script to support the amateur radio APRS network.

Tobias Oetiker <oetiker@ee.ethz.ch> for the way cool RRDtool that
makes the new much improved weather graphs.


	WMR918 CREDITS:

WMR918 support has been contributed by Dominique Le Foll
<dominique@le-foll.demon.co.uk>.  Thanks to Dominique for the WMR918
files and the following additional credits:

Thanks to John Stanley <stanley@peak.org> who find out the code of the
WMR918 well hiden by Oregon Scientific. His original code written for
Iris has it latest version at his own page at:
http://www.peak.org/~stanley/wmr918/

Thanks to whoever it was in China who built the WMR918 for Oregon
Scientific to sell.

Thanks to Dave Heider of Weather Information Systems for looking over
the data spec I decoded. If you have a WMR918 and a PC with Windows,
go to <http://www.weatherview32.com> first.

Thanks, of a sort, to Oregon Scientific for refusing to provide any
assistance in decoding their data format, which made this into a more
difficult problem to solve and more satisfying with each discovery.


Please let me know if I forgot your name here.

-- 
-- Tim Witham <twitham@quiknet.com>, http://www.quiknet.com/~twitham/
