=head1 NAME

ser_ctl - Tool for user/alias/domain management and remote SER control.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head2 User, alias and domain administration:

=over 8

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<alias>  B<add>  <I<uri>> <I<alias>> [I<alias>]

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<alias>  B<rm>   <I<alias>> [I<alias>]

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<attrs>  B<set>  <I<uri>> <I<attr>=I<value>> [I<attr>=I<value>]...

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<domain> B<add>  <I<domain>> [I<domain_alias>...]

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<domain> B<rm>   [I<domain>...]

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<domain> B<show> [I<domain>]

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<password>    <I<uri>>

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<user>   B<add>  <I<uri>> [I<alias>...]

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<user>   B<rm>   <I<uri>>

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<user>   B<show> <I<uri>>

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<usrloc> B<add>  <I<uri>> <I<contact>> [I<expires>=seconds] [I<q>=q] [I<flags>=flags]

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<usrloc> B<show> <I<uri>> [I<contact>]

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<usrloc> B<rm>   <I<uri>> [I<contact>]

=head2 SER control, info and statistics:

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<kill> [I<sig>]

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<ps>

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<reload>

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<stat> [I<module_name>]

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<uptime>

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<version>

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<list_methods>

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<list_tls>

=head2 Miscellaneous:

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<publish> <I<uid>> <I<file_with_PIDF_doc>> <I<expires_in_sec>> [I<etag>]

=item ser_ctl [B<options...>] [--] B<purge>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Aliases

Command 'B<ser_ctl alias add/rm>' adds or removes aliases of existing username. Aliases
are stored in 'uri' table.

Command 'B<ser_ctl alias show>' show existing users: their uid, uri and
flags. This command shows both canonical and non-canonical records (see
'B<ser_ctl user show>' command).

=head2 Domains

Command 'B<ser_ctl domain>' adds/removes domain to/from 'domain' table. After
a domain is added or removed 'domain.reload' remote procedure is called to
update the memory cache on the server.

=head2 Users

Command 'B<ser_ctl user add>' adds a new user. 

Command 'B<ser_ctl user rm>' deletes specified username completely from database. 

Command 'B<ser_ctl user show>' shows existing users: their uid, uri and
flags. This command is the same as 'B<ser_ctl alias show>', but shows only
canonical records (no aliases).

For B<add> command, user is specified as his canonical I<uri>
(username@domain.tld). Username part of uri is used as new username.
Domain part is checked for existence in domain table. Domain must exist (must
be created by ser_ctl domain, before) in database.

Password for new user may be specified as last parameter or using B<-p>
option. 

Password may be changed by 'B<ser_ctl password>' command.

Note: Interactive and secure prompt for password is not implemented yet.

=head2 User location

Command 'B<ser_ctl usrloc add>' add new contact to user location table.

Table name may be specified by B<-U> option. But only 'location' (default
value) table name is implemented now. 

Optional attributes may be specified as key-value pairs. Attributes are:
expiration time, flags and quality. Expiration time is in seconds. Default
values are: I<q>=1, I<expires>=0, I<flags>=128. If flags is not
specified and expires is set and differ from 0, then flags are assumed 0,
(128 otherwise).

Command 'B<ser_ctl usrloc rm>' remove contact (if specified) or all contacts
from user location table for specified I<uri>.

Command 'B<ser_ctl usrloc show>' prints user location table.

=head2 Remote call and statistics

Command B<ser_ctl kill> send signal to SER via XML-RPC or FIFO. Signal should be
specified numerically. Default is 15 (TERM).

Command B<ser_ctl ps> list pids of running SER processes on server along with
a short description of each process.

Command B<ser_ctl reload> calls all *.reload remote procedure calls
available on the server.

Command B<ser_ctl stat> show miscellaneous server statistics reported mainly
by *.stats rpc. Optional parameter I<module_name> specifies for which
modules statistics will be printed. When omitted, all available statistics
will be shown.

Command B<ser_ctl uptime> shows server uptime.

Command B<ser_ctl version> shows server version.

Command B<ser_ctl list_methods> shows all server's methods which may be remotely
called.

Command B<ser_ctl list_tls> show FIX: what? (some TLS statistics?)

=head2 Miscellaneous

Command B<ser_ctl publish> can manage presence information on server. FIX:
update.

Command B<ser_ctl purge> remove all records marked as deleted from database.

=head1 OPTIONS

For options description see B<serctl>(1) man page.

=head1 BUGS

Some things are not implemented yet.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Related man pages:  B<serctl>(1), B<ser_cred>(1), B<ser_domain>(1), B<ser_uri>(1), 
B<ser_user>(1).

=head1 AUTHOR

Jan Halla <hallik@iptel.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 iptelorg GmbH.

This program is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as the SIP Express Router itself.
