=head1 NAME

ser_cred - Tool for low-level management of authentication credentials.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 8

=item ser_cred [B<options...>] [--] B<add>     <I<auth_username>> <I<realm>> <I<uid>> <I<password>>

=item ser_cred [B<options...>] [--] B<change>  [[[I<auth_username>] I<realm>] I<uid>]

=item ser_cred [B<options...>] [--] B<disable> [[[I<auth_username>] I<realm>] I<uid>]

=item ser_cred [B<options...>] [--] B<enable>  [[[I<auth_username>] I<realm>] I<uid>]

=item ser_cred [B<options...>] [--] B<rm>      [[[I<auth_username>] I<realm>] I<uid>]

=item ser_cred [B<options...>] [--] B<purge>

=item ser_cred [B<options...>] [--] B<show>    [[[I<auth_username>] I<realm>] I<uid>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Command 'B<ser_cred add>' adds new credentials into SER database. (Appropriate
hashes are generated automatically.)

Command 'B<ser_domain change>' changes the password or flags for I<auth_username>
(or more precisely given by I<realm> and I<uid>). Flags should be
specified by B<-F> option, password by B<-p> option. (New correct hashes are
regenerated automatically.)

Command 'B<ser_cred rm>' marks credentials as deleted
(set DELETED flag).

Command 'B<ser_cred disable>' sets DISABLED flag for specified credentials.

Command 'B<ser_cred enable>' unsets DISABLED flag for specified credentials.

Command 'B<ser_cred purge>' removes all credentials marked as deleted from
the database.

Command 'B<ser_cred show>' prints credentials.


=head1 OPTIONS

For options description see B<serctl>(1) man page.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Related man pages:  B<serctl>(1), B<ser_domain>(1), B<ser_uri>(1), B<ser_user>(1).

=head1 AUTHOR

Jan Halla <hallik@iptel.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 iptelorg GmbH.

This program is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as the SIP Express Router itself.
