=head1 NAME

serctl - Next generation of SER control tool.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

ser_<module_name> [options...] [--] [[command] params...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The serctl is tool for local/remote SER management. Serctl can manage SER
database (only new scheme is supported) and can call XML-RPC commans on
server.

Serctl is modularized. New module can be simply added to enhance
functionality. See README for information how add module.

=head1 MODULES

=head2 Modules for low-level database management:

=over 8

=item attr

Module for managing attributes. See B<ser_attr>(1). 

=item cred

Module for managing credential information. See B<ser_cred>(1). 

=item domain

Module for managing virtual domains. See B<ser_domain>(1). 

=item db

Simple but universal module for acces to any table in SER database.
Mainly for testing and debuging.

=item rpc

Simple module for remote procedure call. Procedures may be called by XML-RPC
or throught the fifo (localy only). See B<ser_rpc>(1).

=item uri

Module for managing URIs. See B<ser_uri>(1). 

=item user

Module for low-level user management. See B<ser_user>(1). 

=back

=head2 Module for high-level user/alias/domain management, RPC and statistics:

=over 8

=item ctl

By B<ser_ctl>(1) command it is possible to add/remove users, aliases and
domains to/from SER database. It is also possible call remote procedures
on server or view some statistics from the server.

=head1 OPTIONS

Many options are common for most serctl modules. There is a common 
description of all options, see respective man pages for more accurate 
description for some special case.

=item B<-A>, B<--servers> I<uri_list>

Space separated list of URIs for multi-rpc call. Value from B<-s> option (or
SER_URI config variable) is used when this option is not specified.

=item B<-B>, B<--env-db> I<env_name>

Set environmemnt variable name which will be used to pass database URI if
not specified by config file or from command line. Default 'I<SERCTL_DB>'.

=item B<-b>, B<--db-uri> I<uri>

Database URI in the form: dbbackend://user:password@host:port/database.
Default is 'I<mysql://ser:heslo@localhost:5060/ser>'.

=head3 Supported database backends:

=over 8

=item B<mysql>

MySQL backend (e.g.: mysql://...)

=item B<postgres>

Postgree SQL backend (e.g.: postgres://...)

=back

=item B<-C>, B<--columns> I<colname1,colname2,...>

This option is used by show command. Describe what columns will be printed
and their order. Without this option all columns will be printed in random
(database determined) order.

=item B<-c>, B<--config> I<path>

Path to config file. Default is F</etc/serctl/serctl.conf>.

=item B<-D>, B<--depth>

Convert domain to corresponding DIDs first and return output for all acquired DIDs.

=item B<-d>, B<--did>

When this option is used, domain names set on command line are interpreted as
DID. (No conversion from domain to DID is made, but raw string is used as
DID.)

=item B<-F>, B<--flags> I<flags>

Flags may be specified as number or as symbolic string (like chmod uses):

=over 8

=item  B<'c'>, B<0x004> ... CANONICAL

=item  B<'d'>, B<0x002> ... DISABLED

=item  B<'e'>, B<0x200> ... CALLEE_DELETED

=item  B<'f'>, B<0x010> ... IS_FROM

=item  B<'p'>, B<0x040> ... PENDING

=item  B<'r'>, B<0x100> ... CALLER_DELETED

=item  B<'s'>, B<0x001> ... LOAD_SER

=item  B<'t'>, B<0x008> ... IS_TO

=item  B<'w'>, B<0x020> ... FOR_SERWEB

=item  B<'x'>, B<0x080> ... DELETED

=back

When specified as number values are ORed.

When specified as string there are three variants:

=over 8

=item B<set> individual flags

prepend '+' befor flag string (e.g. '+ft')

=item B<unset> individual flags

prepend '-' befor flag string (e.g. '-ws')

=item  B<set/unset> all flags

prepend '=' befor flag string (e.g. '=ftw')

=back

Examples:

=over 8

=item B<-F> I<'+fs-t'>

set IS_FROM, LOAD_SER and unset IS_TO flags, all others flags stay intact.

=item B<-F> I<'=fwt'>

set IS_FROM, FOR_SERWEB, IS_TO, all other flags unset

=item  B<-F> I<17>

set IS_FROM, LOAD_SER, all other flags unset

=back

B<Note:> Flags can be specified as decimal numbers, only. Hexadecimal notation
(0x...) not yet supported, now. Will be in the future.

=item B<-f>, B<--force>

Ignore any non-fatal errors. Be silent.

=item B<-G>, B<--dbg-args>

Debuging option. Show module name, function name, arguments and options befor
action.

=item B<-g>, B<--debug>

Switch on python backtrace listing when error occurred.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Help.

=item B<-J>, B<--fifo> I<fifo_path>

Path to fifo. Used if B<-j> option is specified. Default: 'I</tmp/ser_fifo>'.

=item B<-j>, B<--use-fifo>

Use fifo instead xml-rpc for RPC.

=item B<-k>, B<--ssl-key> I<path>

Path to SSL key file. Used with SSL encryption for RPC. No default value,
this mean no client authentication used.

=item B<-L>, B<--line-sep> I<line_separator>

Line separator for show command. Delault is LF (0x0a).

=item B<-l>, B<--limit> I<num>

Limit number of displayed rows to I<num>.

=item B<-m>, B<--ssl-cert> I<path>

Path to SSL certificate file. Used with SSL encryption for RPC. No default
value, this mean no client authentication used.

=item B<-N>, B<--fformat> I<flag_format>

Flag output format. Should be one of 'sym', 'hex', 'oct' or 'dec' for
symbolic, hexadecimal, octal or decimal format. Default is I<sym>.

=item B<-n>, B<--numeric>

Show raw values. (Don't do any converions, e.g. for flags.)

=item B<-p>, B<--password> I<password>

Specify password (for some commands).

=item B<-R>, B<--rec-sep> I<record_separator>

Columns separator for show command. Default is space (0x20).

=item B<-S>, B<--env-ser> I<env_name>

Set environmemnt variable name which will be used to pass server URI if
not specified by config file or from command line. Default 'I<SERCTL_SER>'.

=item B<-s>, B<--ser-uri> I<uri>

Server uri for RPC operations in the form: http[s]://user:password@host:port. 
Default is 'I<unix:/tmp/ser_ctl>'.

B<Note:> For comunication by binrpc protocol through local unix socket use form:
'I<unix[s]:/socket_path>' for stream type unix socket and 'I<unixd:/socket_path>'
for datagram socket instead.

=item B<-t>, B<--as-table>

Show output as table.

=item B<-U>, B<--ul-table> I<table_name>

Set user location table name. Default is I<'location'>.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Show version and exit.

=head1 CONFIG FILE

Serctl use config file, if exist. Default path to config file is
F</etc/serctl/serctl.conf>, may be specified by B<-c> option.

Config file is common for all ser_* commands. It's processed at startup as
python code block. After that, all variables that correspond to options
are passed as default values for this options. All options have corresponding
config file variable. Variable name may be determined from long-form option
stripping first two dashes and converting remain string to upper case with
dash '-' replaced by underscore '_' (e.g. --ser-uri option may be specified
in config file as variable SER_URI).

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=item SERCTL_DB

Environmemnt variable which is used to pass database URI, if
not specified by config file or from command line. 

=item SERCTL_SER

Environmemnt variable which is used to pass server URI, if
not specified by config file or from command line. 

=head1 FILES

=item F</etc/serctl/serctl.conf>

Default config file.

=head1 BUGS

Timestamp format is dependent on used database engine, when printed by 'show'
subcommand.


=head1 SEE ALSO

Related man pages:  B<ser_attr>(1), B<ser_cred>(1), B<ser_ctl>(1), B<ser_domain>(1),
B<ser_rpc>(1), B<ser_uri>(1), B<ser_user>(1).

=head1 AUTHOR

Jan Halla <hallik@iptel.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 iptelorg GmbH.

This program is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as the SIP Express Router itself.
