=head1 NAME

serxmlrpc - extension of xmlrpclib module for digest authorization and
persistent connection. Mainly for use with SER (Sip Express Router) as
client side library.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<from serctl.serxmlrpc import *>


class B<Transport>(I<uri>=B<None>, I<ssl>=B<None>)

exception B<UnsupportedAuthScheme>(I<scheme>)

function B<ServerProxy>(I<uri>, I<ssl>=B<None>, I<encoding>=B<None>, I<verbose>=B<0>, I<allow_none>=B<0>)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Instance of B<Transport> class can be used as transport instance for B<xmlrpc.ServerProxy>.

=over 8

=item B<uri>

is URI string of the form http[s]://[user[:password]@]host[:port][/path]. It is
used for making connection to server. When omited or set to None default
values are used: user='anonymous', password='', host='localhost', port=5060.
User and password are used for digest authorization.

=item B<ssl>

is tuple of strings (ssl_key_file, ssl_cert_file), where ssl_key_file and ssl_cert_file 
are names of private PEM formated key file and PEM formated certificate
chain file. Default is None, it mean no ssl authentication is used.

=back

Exception B<UnsupportedAuthScheme> is raised when server require unsupported
authorization scheme. Only digest authorization scheme is supported, now.

Function B<ServerProxy> is wrapper around ServerProxy class from xmlrpclib
module. It instanties xmlrpclib.ServerProxy with transport parameter set to
new B<Transport> instance. Uri and ssl parameters are the same as
described above for B<Transport>. All other parameters are directly passed
to xmlrpclib.ServerProxy. See documentation for xmlrpclib.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

ServerProxy function return xmlrpclib.ServerProxy instance.

=head1 PYTHON VERSION

Module serxmlrpc is for python 2.2+.

=head1 NOTE

Serxmlrpc module can be used separately. It's not dependent on serctl package.
